In order to identify performance bottlenecks, profile the Darknet code and report on your results. 

Profiling is performed with [gprof](https://ftp.gnu.org/old-gnu/Manuals/gprof-2.9.1/html_chapter/gprof_9.html) ([HPC tutorial](https://hpc-wiki.info/hpc/Gprof_Tutorial), [tutorial](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2012/08/gprof-tutorial/)).

To establish the profiling principle, we will first profile on the X86 host and then use a target ZedBoard available through our build server.


## 1. Compilation for Profiling

Before you can profile your program, you must first recompile it specifically for profiling. For this prepare the Makefile to include an option for profiling which add the -pg option to CFLAGS. To be flexible, we want to expose that option to the make command line interface. For this insert the the following lines into the Makefile at around line 85 above a similar check for DEBUG. 

```
ifeq ($(PROFILE),1)
OPTS= -pg
endif
```

Then, recompile the code:

```
make clean
make PROFILE=1
```

Note the additional flag for enabling profiling.

## 2. Profiling

1. Profile the code using:

    ```
    ./darknet detector test cfg/coco.data cfg/yolov3-tiny.cfg yolov3-tiny.weights data/dog.jpg
    ```

    This command does not overwrite the reference data/dog.txt output file by default (unless the –save_labels option is included). This will allow us to use the original reference output as ground truth to compare against when we start making modifications and optimizations of Darknet as discussed below.

    As you will be running the same test multiple times, it is beneficial to put this into the makefile. Create a rule `test` at the end of the makefile.

    To validate it works, run: 

    ```
    make test
    ```

    Running the program to completion causes a file named gmon.out to be created in the current directory. gprof works by analyzing the data collected during the execution of your program after your program has finished running. gmon.out holds this data in a gprof-readable format.

2. Convert gmon.out into readable text. 

    ```
    gprof darknet gmon.out > darknet-perf.txt
    ```

3. Identify the bottleneck of the code based on the execution time on your simulation host (x86) of each function.


## 3. Profiling on ZedBoard

Profile execution on a real ZedBoard. As a scalable solution to provide access to ZedBoards without physicallly giving them out, we have installed a build server based on [Jenkins](https://jenkins.io) with a ZedBoard attached. 

Profiling your code on the ZedBoard relies on the preparation steps above. Enure that all your code is committted and pushed. Validate with checking the content on github. Our build server cannot see local changes or code in your local repo that has not been pushed to github.

Follow the [instructions](https://neu-ece-7368-f22.github.io/Jenkins.html) to get access to our build server.

Download the `darknet-perf.txt` for analysis. 

## 4. Analysis

Report your profiling results, focus on the profiling results for the ZedBoard (through jenkins). Optional, compare with the profiling results on X86 and discuss differences. 

