As you probably realize by now, the general matrix-matrix multiply (GEMM) part in the convolutional layers occupies the dominant share of the total execution time. GEMM is known to be computationally-intensive and expensive operations. Now, let’s try to do some optimization to improve the execution speed of the GEMM. Image processing or object detection applications like YOLO in general require algorithms that are typically specified using floating-point operations. However, for power, cost, and performance reasons, they are usually implemented with fixed-point operations either in software or as special-purpose hardware accelerators. To that end, we will convert the floating-point GEMM in Darknet to a fixed-point GEMM. We will use a two-step approach: first implementing a stand-alone version of gemm_fp for module testing (this issue), and second integration into darknet (next issue).

## 1. Setup Initial Testbench 

Your lab1 repository already contains a sub directory `gemm_fp`. 

In that directory create a testbench based on the code snippet below which shows how to perform floating- to fixed-point conversion in C/C++. Create a Makefile for compilation.

```C++
#include <stdio.h>
#include <math.h>

int roundup(float fp_number)
{
	int	fx_number	=	(int)fp_number;

	if(fp_number-fx_number>=0.5)	fx_number++;

	return	fx_number;
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[])
{
	// how to compute 0.213 * 500 in fixed point?
	
	float FloatPointValue = 0.213;
	int scale = 16;
	
	// mapping
	int FixedPointValue = roundup(FloatPointValue*(1<<scale));
	
	// here is your fixed point algorithm
	FixedPointValue = FixedPointValue * 500;
	
	// remapping
	float result = (float)(FixedPointValue)/(1<<scale);
	
	// printing result
	printf("%.10f\n",FloatPointValue*500);
	printf("%.10f\n",result);
}
```

Create a Makefile for compilation. 

## 2. Extract Darknet GEMM, Setup Testbench

We will first establish the testbench, SNR calculation and then convert to fixed point.

Create source and header files for fixed point GEMM (`gemm_cpu_fp.c`, `gemm_cpu_fp.h`). Copy the relevant GEMM function from Darknet into your files (`gemm_cpu_fp.c`, `gemm_cpu_fp.h`) for now keeping the same interface (i.e. floating point). 
The CPU code for GEMM exists in different versions which differ if any or both input matrices have to be transposed. So instead of first transposing 
and then calculating GEMM, the GEMM loop structure is changed to take transposition into account on the fly (see [blog](https://actorsfit.com/a?ID=01450-31363d06-9eb8-4b3d-86de-12c43baecf43) for more background). To simplify, you do not need to convert all four variants, only focus on the variant that is used in our test dataset (neither A nor B need transposing). 

Expand the testbench.cpp to call your own GEMM function. This testbench should use the test data captured in gemm_fp/testData.* to drive your GEMM gemm_cpu_fp functions (`tst_matrix_A * tst_matrix_B + tst_matrix_Cin`). Then, compare your output against the reference output `tst_matrix_Cout` for some sample matrix locations. 

Validate and commit your code. 

## 3. Measure SNR

Converting GEMM to fixed-point will induce a certain amount of accuracy loss. This whole idea of trading off accuracy with execution speed is often called Approximate Computing. In the context of the standalone GEMM, we can define an accuracy metric by the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). An example for calculating SNR using Matlab is given below (assuming the output of your GEMM is stored in `uut_gemm_cout`):

```
ddif = uut_gemm_cout – tst_matrix_Cout;
disp([‘SNR is’, num2str(10*log10(sum(tst_matrix_Cout(:).^2)/sum(ddiff(:).^2))), ‘dB’]);
```
Convert this conceptual Matlab code into C/C++ and integrate into your testbench as function `matrix_snr(/*...*/)` that compares your GEMM's output against the reference output `tst_matrix_Cout` computing the SNR.

Validate and commit your code. 
Update the Makefile to include include a `test` rule to execute your testbench and output the accuracy. 
The SNR should be very high, as your code is still in floating point.

## 4. Convert GEMM to Fixed Point

Convert your GEMM's data type from floating-point to fixed-point using only integer data types, such as short/long ints (signed or unsigned). Create conversion functions to convert a matrix float to fixed (`mm_float_to_fixed`) and (`mm_fixed_to_float`) which  then can be processed in the fixed point gemm variant. 

Compute the SNR and report the unoptimized SNR. Commit your code. 

## 5. Optimize SNR

Try to maximize the SNR of your fixed-point GEMM. Aim to achieve at least >40 dB of SNR. Report the SNR of your converted GEMM and the optimization steps that you have taken to improve.

Commit your code. Close the issue.

