As an extra credit item, start from your fixed-point code base developed #4 and find additional opportunities to implement other optimizations that further improve software performance on the ARM. Report on the optimizations applied and results achieved.

Some suggestions for possible optimizations are:

1. Exploiting SIMD vector processing. Many high-performance computing applications exploit vectorized instructions and SIMD processing capabilities of our ARM A53 CPU which includes a NEON SIMD vector unit. Leverage such hardware capabilities to further improve run-time performance. You can look for this [link](https://community.arm.com/android-community/b/android/posts/arm-neon-programming-quick-reference) as a starting point.

2. Cache locality-aware GEMM optimization. By default, Darknet uses a naïve triple-nested loop to implement the GEMM. This does not consider data reuse opportunities from the underlying cache and memory hierarchies in the ARM platform. Implement a locality-aware GEMM and measure the performance improvement accordingly. See these links as starting points: [How To Optimize GEMM](https://github.com/flame/how-to-optimize-gemm/wiki), [HW1](https://sites.google.com/lbl.gov/cs267-spr2019/hw-1).

3. Parallelization and/or pipelining of the Darknet processing chain on our multi-core ARM platform (this may also expose opportunities for exploiting hardware/software parallelism when mapping the GEMM out into HW later in the lab sequence). This requires a deeper understanding of the Darknet processing chain, specifically to analyze dependencies (and hence parallelization opportunities) among Darknet blocks. Some basic instructions for how to implement parallel processing using the Pthreads library (available both on the board and on the Linux hosts) are available here.
 
Talk to us (instructor or TA) if you are interested, have questions or are looking for ideas/advice around any of these topics.